---
title: The NOMM onboarding process
description: A quick explainer of the NOMM onboarding process with a few more details
weight: 1
---


NOMM comes with a really simple & intuitive onboarding experience.

It will ask you for basic information like where you want to store downlaods, and where you want to store your mods in staging.

## Staging & Downloads folder selection

> [!NOTE] What is staging?
> In modding spheres you will often hear about **staging**.
> To explain what that means we need to go through the steps of how mods get installed.
> - First, you download the mod archive. This is generally a single file in an archive format like `.zip`, `.7z` or `.rar`.
> - Then you extract the contents of that archive into an intermediary folder managed by the mod manager called the **staging folder**.
> - Finally, you deploy the contents of what's in the staging folder to the game files. This can be done via a simple copy, but generally to save space and avoid redundant files, most mod managers opt for some type of linking such as using symbolic links (this is what NOMM uses!)

Keep in mind that:
- Since NOMM uses symlinks, there is no obligation to keep the staging folder on the same drive as your games.
- NOMM will create its own game-specific folders in both the downloads and staging folders.
- NOMM will not create a parent folder in the folder you have selected. That folder will act as a parent folder

To clarify, this will be the file structure for **downloads**:

```sh
[download-folder-you-selected]
|-- Skyrim
|   |-- mod_1.zip
|   `-- mod_2.7z
|-- Warhammer 40K Darktide
|   |-- mod_1.zip
|   |-- mod_2.rar
|   `-- mod_3.zip
`-- Final Fantasy XII
    `-- mod_1.7z
```

And this will be the file structure for **staging**:
```sh
[staging-folder-you-selected]
|-- Skyrim
|   |-- mod_1
|   |   |-- mod_1_files
|   |   `-- more_mod_1_files
|   `-- mod_2
|       `-- mod_2_files
|-- Warhammer 40K Darktide
|   |-- mod_1
|       `-- mod_1_files
|   |-- mod_2
|       `-- mod_2_files
|   `-- mod_3
|       `-- mod_3_files
`-- Final Fantasy XII
    `-- mod_1
        `-- mod_1_files
```

## Nexus API key

You have the option to add your Nexus API key to NOMM to enable mod and metadata downloads.

This API key can be obtained from the Nexus website via [this link](https://www.nexusmods.com/settings/api-keys) and scrolling all the way down.

You may also obtain it yourself by following these steps:
- Click on your avatar top right,
- Select `Site Preferences`
- Select the `API keys` tab on the left

And then in the same way, you will have to scroll all the way down to obtain your API key.

Once you have copied it, you can simply paste it directly in NOMM.

If you want you can simply press "continue" on this step, but obviously that will disable half the features of NOMM.

You can always add this key later from the options menu.

## Giving NOMM access

NOMM will need access to a few paths to work properly.
The first thing NOMM will do once initial setup is over is scan your libraries that are configured on [supported platforms](/docs/about/game-platforms).

Once it has done that, it will request that the user give it access to those libraries AND the previously selected paths for downloads and staging.

As much as NOMM will be able to continue functionning without the access to all libraries, **NOMM will not be able to launch without write access to the downloads and the staging folder** as that would directly impact its ability to mod literally any game.

Once you have used the command generated by NOMM, you will have to restart it for those new access rights to be provided to the app.

And that's it, you're done!

## Next steps

Even though NOMM's UI was designed to be simple and intuitive, we still made a [wiki page on navigating the UI](/docs/navigating-the-ui) if you're lost.

You can also check out the troubleshooting guide if your games/mods aren't working or your NOMM is facing problems.
